so many females gathered together on
this cliff inevitably
attract the attention of a rival adult
male his aim is to defeat Scarface and
take over his females he leads a group
of outcast bachelors into battle
[Music]
Scarface spots them he has everything to
lose because if the bachelors defeat him
they won't just take his females they
will kill his babies the bachelors tried
to reach the high ground to launch their
attack Scarface warns them to keep their
distance but the bachelors continue
their advance
[Music]
Scarface grinds his teeth to show him
his business but the bachelor leader
reaches the cliff top and grinds his
teeth and responds
if Scarface loses his battle he will
lose his legacy
[Music]
time to strike
he targets the bachelor leader
[Music]
Scarface has won and he returns to a
hero's welcome
[Music]
the male's entire harem is now at stake
one bachelor makes his move but the
female spits her disapproval
the mail leaps into action
[Music]
using razor-sharp teeth he aims was
challenges testicles an emasculator bite
[Music]
neck's are protected by specially
thickened skin
these fights have no rules
[Music]
the battles are exhausting
the Challenger is driven off his
masculinity intact the male enjoys the
rewards whilst he can the legs monitor
is an agile tree climber it's long claws
allow it to grip the smooth gum tree
bark
[Music]
this particular tree has attracted the
attention of a lace monitor because it's
the home of a female opossum with babies
in her nest
[Music]
[Applause]
the possums noisy defense forces the
monitor to retreat
[Music]
but hunger drives the lizard to make a
second attempt
[Music]
lunging into the opossums nest looks
suicidal yet the Montes seems hardly to
notice the opossums bite
[Music]
it takes less than a minute for the
lizard to devour the baby possums inside
the nasty
[Music]
for kangaroos the greatest challenges
come from within their own society for a
male there's only really one key lesson
to learn in his life they get to the top
he must become a fighter
the battles are so brutal the males need
years of training to prepare the effort
is worth it because a champion fighter
wins privileged access to the females
this Meadow is a boot camp for aspiring
boxers training starts as soon as a
youngster is out of the pouch its mother
is a handy opponent for a young Joey
learning the basics
but he soon off in search of more
sparring partners the other grown-ups
are not so tolerant of this lightweight
[Music]
this male alone rules the meadow
he stands eight feet tall his muscles
hardened by years of sparring
today a challenger for his title has
come forward full-blown fights are so
dangerous they're not entered into
lightly
but when two males square up it's time
to clear the arena
anything goes in these power struggles I
doubting is entirely within the rules
so is kicking below the belt
the dominant male skill is already
telling
[Music]
the stakes are high they risk broken
bones and internal injuries
suddenly it's all over the champion has
beaten off the Challenger at least for
now
[Music]
the time when both egg and the brooding
parent are permanently at risk
[Music]
smaller over Raptors are no more than a
nuisance
larger predators are a different story
unwilling to leave the nest the adult
protects its offspring first by hiding
and if that fails it goes on the
offensive
protecting the nest means Giganta
raptors young are more likely to survive
it now seems clear that the instinct to
nurture and care for a nest of eggs had
its origins with the dinosaurs it's a
behavior that was so successful it's
still widespread today with birds but
the fossils show something else these
animals all died sitting on their nests
[Music]
it seems that the threats don't always
come from predators sometimes the real
danger comes from the most unlikely
places
these dinosaurs were all buried alive
[Music]